 As the two former defense workers headed to S-max's
van, they reflected on the loss of their jobs, their
paychecks, and their dignity, as well as their blasted
reputations.

      "I have never been happier," the computer builder
said, strolling through the parking garage, the fake zebra
fur from his computer chair draped over his arm.  "And to
think, we escaped the whole fiasco without being even made
the subject of some lengthy TV mini-series."  He grunted
with glee.  "Or a congressional investigation."

     The programmer shuffling behind him, his arms full of
boxes stuffed with fur dice, "Honk If You Want Complete
Schematics" bumper-stickers, a plaster bust of John F.
Kennedy, and all the other effluvium from their former
office, didn't reply.  He was too stricken with grief at the
loss of his first engineering job to speak.

     "Did I ever tell you how I was once the subject of a
congressional investigation?" S-max continued.

     Andrew.BAS wanted to reply that no, he had not told
him, nor was he surprised that the mischievous S-max had
been the subject of a congressional investigation, but he
was too sad to answer.

     "This nudnik congressman thought fer sure that I was
the source of a recent spate of computer terrorism in
Surinam, but I wasn't.  I was in Guyana at the time."  He
grunted innocently.

     "I think I read about that in the papers."

     "You most likely did.  I received much fan mail after
my verile profile was transmitted over the wire services.
Although many of the pictures that female correspondents
sent of themselves >>did<< appear to have prison numbers on
them."  He grunted again.

     Andrew.BAS recalled a newspaper story he had once read
about a raggedy computer whiz who had practically taken
Congress hostage, ranting and raving for hours in front of a
microphone about various outdated computer architectures.
How could he have known that he would one day find himself
sharing his office--and his home even--with this same
goofball?  Had he known he probably would have foresaken his
childhood dream of leading an impeccably logical life and
become an art history major instead.

     S-max spotted the gloom on the programmer's face.  He
felt sorry for him, then realized with a start that this was
the very first time he had ever felt sorry for a computer
programmer.  Usually he did not feel sorry for programmers.
Usually he felt they deserved whatever they got.  But he
couldn't help thinking of how hard it must have been on the
young programmer when the evil and demonic Gus Farwick had
phoned his parents and informed them that their son had
programmed a smart bomb to write 'Goose Farwook Sings the
Big Kahuna' across the sky.  (When Farwick had demanded that
S-max tell him the truth about who had been the mastermind
behind the bomb's blasphemy, the computer builder couldn't
help it, the name 'Andrew.BAS' had just slipped from his
mouth.)

     S-max's parents, on the other hand, were not at all
surprised when the engineer-manager called to tell them what
their socially-challenged offspring had been up to.
(Unfortunately, Farwick hadn't believed for a second that
Andrew.BAS was the one most responsible for the bomb that
had embarrassed him in front of half of the Pentagon's
weapons shopaholics.  He may flaunt a job title that was
appended by the word 'manager,' but he was not stupid.)

     Not surprisingly, S-max's parents initially denied
having ever heard of him.  They even denied that their name
was Maxwell or that they had ever lived at the same address
as anyone with a big nose and an orange and black afro.
Only when pressed, did they admit--between sobs--that
Sherwood Franklin Maxwell, self-proclaimed computer genius,
was indeed their child.  After that, they sympathized
profusely with his former boss.  They even invited him over
to dinner and offered to do whatever they could to help the
defense contractor pick up the pieces in the wake of their
child's calamitous employment there.

     As S-max and Andrew.BAS shoved the boxes full of fur
dice and "Honk If You Want Complete Schematics" bumper
stickers into the back of S-max's dilapidated van, the
computer builder patted the programmer on the shoulder
compassionately.  "Farwick will regret it," he assured him.
"He will wake up tomorrow and realize what he has done--that
in one flash of blind and ignorant rage he fired his two
most whimsical employees.  It will forever after that seem
to him like nothing but a horrible dream."

     "I'm sure it does already," Andrew.BAS said.

     They crawled into the front seat.  As the computer
builder steered the satellite dish-topped van down the steep
garage ramp with daredevilish swerves, he reflected on what
they should do with the rest of their lives.

     "We could raise labrador retrievers," he suggested.

     "Do you want to build the kennel?"

     "Do you really think one is necessary?"

     The programmer frowned.  How he had gotten himself into
this mess with such a loonball he would never know.
Sometimes he felt his life was being authored by, not by
Fate, but a sadistic sitcom writer whose last paying gig was
'The Gong Show.'

     S-max continued, "We could go on a lecture tour."

     "What would we lecture about?"

     "Stuff."

     "Stuff?"

     "We could simply rail on and on for several hours in an
entertaining fashion about things that irk us, then pass out
floppy disks full of free software afterward."

     "Like you did before Congress?"

     "Very similar, but we probably wouldn't have to quote
so much from 'Thus Spake Zarathustra.'"

     "This sounds like something you could do without my
help."

     "I think you're right.  Were we to go on the road
together I suspect it wouldn't be long before I'd be itching
to branch off into a solo career."

     The programmer looked out the cracked window at the
street and sighed.

     S-max rattled on, "We could hire ourselves out as
consultants."

     "What kind of advice would we give?"

     "We could..."  He paused, uncertain.  "We could tell
people how to play their video games correctly."

     "And?"

     "Do we have to tell them anything else?"

     "If they're paying us we do."

     "You're sure about this?"

     "Certain."

     "That's really too bad."  S-max swerved around a
fireplug in a broad, illegal U-turn over a grassy island.
Both considered the problem in silence, stunned by the
enormity of it.  Tentatively, the computer builder
suggested, "We could start a high-tech company together?"

     "With you?"

     He bristled, "Yes, with me.  It's not like I haven't
started high-tech companies lots of times before."

     "You have?"

     "Yes, I have.  All you need is a post office box and
one of those little trays that you use to process credit
cards.  It's not that hard."

     Andrew.BAS considered.  <<Start a business.>>  It
wasn't such a bad idea afterall, once he got over the
disbelief of the notion of starting a company with someone
as capricious as S-max.  They could sell software by mail,
and maybe some ingenious computer hardware device too, if S-
max dreamed one up.  They could run the business out of
their home.  No one would ever know it was just a weathered
A-frame with fraternity letters on the front rail.  They
could install a bank of phones in the livingroom, and answer
the ringing phones crisply, and make it sound like their
company inhabited a sleek office tower.  They could put the
computers in the livingroom too.  They could work whenever
they liked--late into the night if they wished, and take
regular breaks to watch "Star Trek" episodes.  His eyes
widened.  He especially liked that part about taking breaks
to watch "Star Trek".  His mind reeled with the
possibilities.

     "Do you really think we could?" he bubbled finally.

     S-max snorted pompously. "Like I said, I've started
high-tech companies <<oodles>> of times."

     The programmer's mind was too muddied by grief at the
loss of his first job to see things clearly and ask about
the outcome of those "<<oodles>> of times."  Instead, he
brightened and grew enthusiastic about the possibility of
going into business with the hardware hacker.  "But do we
have all the stuff we'd need to start a high-tech company?"
he asked.

     "Look--"  S-max pointed over his shoulder toward the
junk in the back of the van.  "We got a bust of John F.
Kennedy," he said, referring to the bust of the technology-
booster president with the pocket protector pencilled on his
chest, looking lonely and afraid.  "We got a model of
Sputnik."  He pointed to the plastic rocket propped against
a pile of boxes.